Tengwar Telcontar - a unicode Tengwar typeface.
Copyright (C) 2005 Johan Winge

Tengwar Telcontar is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

As a special exception, if you create a document which uses this
font, and embed this font or unaltered portions of this font into
the document, this font does not by itself cause the resulting
document to be covered by the GNU General Public License. This
exception does not however invalidate any other reasons why the
document might be covered by the GNU General Public License. If you
modify this font, you may extend this exception to your version of
the font, but you are not obligated to do so. If you do not wish to
do so, delete this exception statement from your version.

Tengwar Telcontar is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with Tengwar Telcontar; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA


*** GENERIC COMPILING INSTRUCTIONS ***

The compilation of Tengwar Telcontar from source files to a working
Graphite ("smart font" enabled) TrueType typeface consists of two
steps: I.) the generating of bare TrueType fonts from the METAFONT
sources, and II.) adding Graphite tables to the resulting fonts.
You will only have to perform the first step if you want to add or
modify the glyphs in the typeface. If you only want to modify the
smart font behaviour of the typeface, i.e. rules for glyph
substitution and the like, you can skip the first step, and add the
modified Graphite tables to the bare precompiled TrueType fonts
that are also included in the source distribution.

Note: If you haven't done any changes to the METAFONT nor to the
Graphite sources, there is no reason (except for the sheer fun of
it) for you to recompile Tengwar Telcontar. Since a TrueType font
is platform independent (or should be...), you can just as well
use the binary distribution. In fact, I encourage you to do that
instead.

I.) To compile the Tengwar Telcontar source to TrueType font files,
   you will need the following software:

 0.) An OS that can run all of the following software (duh!),
    i.e. some Linux distribution of your choise, or, if you use
    MS Windows, Cygwin: http://www.cygwin.com/

 1.) Python. This is probably included in your Linux distribution.
    (Don't forget to manually include it if/when you install Cygwin
    -- it isn't selected for installation by default.)

 2.) METAFONT. Usually comes boundled in TeX-distributions
    (e.g. MikTeX, teTeX etc.).

 3.) The newest version of FontForge:
    http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/

 4.) A tracing program, AutoTrace or potrace. I recommend the later:
    http://potrace.sourceforge.net/

II.) To add Graphite tables to the resulting fonts, you will need:

 0.) Graphite Compiler. Windows version available from:
    http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&cat_id=RenderingGraphite

    Note 1: The file stddef.gdh that comes with GrCompiler might not
    be found by GrCompiler, and I have found that the easiest way
    to fix this is to copy the file stddef.gdh to the working
    directory of TengTelc. Otherwise you will get very cryptic
    errors when trying to add Graphite tables to the fonts.

    Note 2: (Linux users only.) The sources for Graphite Compiler
    is available for download, but it may not be that easy to
    actually compile it. Instead, the Windows version is possible
    to run under Linux with the help of Wine: http://www.winehq.com/
    Just install Wine, and unzip Graphite Compiler into Wine's
    virtual file system. Then you can run GrCompiler with a 
    command similar to

        wine c:\\Program\ Files\\GrCompiler\\GrCompiler.exe

    However, the compilation script demands that Graphite Compiler
    is invoked by "GrCompiler". Solve this by adding an alias:

        alias GrCompiler='wine c:\\Program\ Files\\GrCompiler\\GrCompiler.exe'

    (Or similar, depending on where you unziped GrCompiler.exe.)


*** EXAMPLE OF COMPILATION UNDER WINDOWS XP ***

Here, as a reference, is how I set up a minimal system to compile
Tengwar Telcontar, starting from a normal Windows XP installation:

0.) From http://www.miktex.org/setup.html I downloaded and
installed the "Small MikTeX" package. No problems, except that it
seems that the path to the MikTeX binaries is sometimes not added
to the PATH variable, which means that METAFONT (mf) will not be
found. To remedy this, open the Control Panel, System, Advanced,
Environment Variables, and then edit Path, by appending something
like ";c:\texmf\miktex\bin". (The exact appearance of the path is
of course dependent on where you installed MikTeX.)

1.) Next I went to http://www.cygwin.com/ and followed the link
"Install or update now!", and a small installation program is
started. The choises weren't too hard. In Select Packages, apart
from the default, the only thing strictly needed is Python, found
in the cathegory Interpreters (click on where it says "skip" to
change what version is installed), and xorg-x11-base, found in X11.
(More advanced users probably also want gcc etc., but this is a
minimalistic guide. You can allways add packages later if you want.)

2.) FontForge next: The writer of FontForge has posted very
detailed instructions on how to install FontForge in Cygwin.
Basically I did it the way he suggests:
http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/ms-install.html

3.) Then I installed Potrace. From http://potrace.sourceforge.net/
I Just downloaded the precompiled distribution for Windows, and
unzipped the file potrace.exe in a reasonable place, e.g.
c:\windows\program files\potrace\. This location must also be added
to your path, in the same way as in step 0.).

4.) Finally I downloaded the latest version of GrCompiler from
http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=GraphiteCompilerDownload
and unzipped all the files into c:\windows\program files\grcompiler\
and then added this path too to the PATH variable.

I then also moved the file stddef.gdh as per the note above.

5.) When the necessary programs are installed, unzip the source
package of Tengwar Telcontar to a folder inside Cygwin's virtual
file system. Then open up a Cygwin shell, move to the location
where the source files reside, and type the following command:

  . ./compile

This way Tengwar Telcontar is compiled from scratch. In the
process, the files latinr.gdh, latinb.gdh, tengwarr.gdh,
tengwarb.gdh, tengtelc_nogr.ttf and tengtelcb_nogr.ttf will be
overwritten.

(If you only want to add modified Graphite programs to the included
files tengtelc_nogr.ttf and tengtelcb_nogr.ttf, it suffices to run
addgr.bat.)

This way the graphite fonts tengtelc.ttf and tengtelcb.ttf are
generated.

Good luck!
